ABOUT
--------------------
Whenever you have to run multiple experiments changing the values of parameters 
and collecting performance measurements with these distinct set of values, it 
is convenient to write a bash script to automate the execution. However, it can 
be really painful to write the same script over and over again.

Also, once you are done with the script you need to collect data and analyze 
them. In some cases, it is convenient to find out a relationship between the 
"parameters" that were changed and the "measurable effects" of these parameters.
Among these effects there's time consumption, CPU consumption, power 
consumption (whenever possible), hardware counters and whatever you can add 
here and measure on the target machine. These relationships may be different 
from what a programmer expected in the first place, or multiple simultaneous 
changes may interfere with one another.

This repository contains ARPE (Analyzing the Relationship between Parameters 
and Effectors), a tool to analyze the effect of parameter changes on the run of 
applications. 



INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
* To run the script generator type make.
  This generates a bin directory copying all the necessary files and run a 
  configurator program that generate your script. The inputs to be given are 
  the number of execution per each configuration, the command to be executed 
  (with strings for parameter values) the changing parameters and their set of 
  values.
* Once you are done move into the bin directory and run ./execute.bash.
  This runs the experiments and collect measurements data. If you want to take 
  full advantage of the tool you should have root priviledges when running the 
  script and have some other tools installed (oprofile, sysstat). Oprofile will 
  take hardware counters and produce a report. Sysstat is used for CPU 
  consumption and requires the file system /proc to be mounted.
* Still under development. Analyze part.
  Once you have produced a "results" directory running the scripts, the tool 
  allows you to anlyze dome data. In the bin directory run ./analyze.bash <dir> 
  passing the directory where the data are stored.



REQUISITES
--------------------
This tool depends on:
* Oprofile
* Sysstat
* Python with: numpy, scipy, statsmodels

To remove the dependencies on oprofile and sysstat (and have only time duration 
analysis) you can comment the lines in /src/basic/before.bash and 
/src/basic/after.bash that deal with the specific tool usage.
